
SANTHOSH.M
IT-B
2127200801078
IT 18305 - DATABASE SYSTEMS
CAT-3 (IIIrd Semester)
11.02.22
Part - A
3)
Advantages for stoling multiple relations in a single file:
* complex structures can be implanented through the DBMS,
thus increasing F performance.
Disadvantages of storing multiple relations in a single file
* Increases the singe and complexity of the DBMS.
D
For the two disk mirrored use we assume A disk and
B disk In order to lose data, A and B need to be footed
failed at the same time. If A is already failed and within
1000000 hours B disk will fail, then data will be lost The
other case is B is already failed and within 100,000 hours A
will fail, and them data will be lost
If the mean time to failure of a single disk is 100000
hours and the mean time to repair is 10 has then the
mean time to dola loss is C109; Doo ^ 2) 2-€ 100.
5)
Map database.
Map database management systems all software proframs designed
to efficiently store and redl spatial information.
is)
2)
B+ trees can be used to brate block containing the
search key.
we choose B+ tree because it is a self- balaning tree data
structure that maintains data and allows searches, sequential
auess, instructions and deletions.
Part- -B
6)b) Challenges in Maintaining Data Consistently
Data discryancy owurs when the data in the target
database devites from the source database The extent to
which the data deviates depends on various factors.
Even when using products that replicate data data reliebly,
such as Oracle, there remains potential causes of data
discrepancy If the good of the
Migration Errors
Different kinds of miglation tools are employed
to facilitate the initial load of the target databases before
replication can begin. Differences in configulation for handling
data by the miglation tools and repliction products can
result in data discrepancies.
Lift & shift workload to Cloud
Since the world is moving towards the lord, the lift
& shift of database from on premises to lord is the held of
today's IT world.
Difference in Source and Target
Diff in source and target database configination,
for example different modings, Cordes, Indianess ol dobbese
versions can cause subtle discrepanies to happen during miglation
and replictions.
Instantiation Errors
Before migration or replication can begin, the target databases will
need to be instantized with the correct scheme and constraits
Configilation Errors
Improper and unintended configuration of repliction products
Can cause discrepansies.
Gaps in Repliction
Although repliction is hobled between source and target
databases and is working perfectly well, there are instances where
data insetted on the source will not be replaced.
Replication Latery
inbetwen changes to the source database and delivery of dose
with asymehranous replidition, there will be a sholt log
changes to the farget.
user errors
often target databases are reded to offtood query
processing from the soure detabage This hobly rich operation
reporting without impacting the applications running
Application errors
Applications that use target data bases can
potentially change dota due to famly Rogic aswell as,
application you upgrades.
The technology requirements for manging data consistency are:
High speed, low impact deta comparisons.
Support for heterogenous databases.
Capability for handling large data volumes.
Flexible options for manging data comperisons.
Support for live databases with outantly chaping data.
Minimally intersive
Comparison of only changed data in countinous replication
Comparison of huge table through automated & manual
partitioning
x Data compersion reports for auditing purposes
x zero downtime of source and target systems.
x Capability to identify data incont inconsistency
Low impact on hardwide and network resources.
Flexible regorting for verying & roles and access levels.
XData Security
x Easy to use, understand configure deplay and diagnis
Part C
Day
Fault Tolerant Services using Replicated State Machines
X Key requirement make a service fault tolerant.
Eg : lock manager, key - value storage system,
servies. State machines are a powerful approach to creating such
*
A state mahine
*
& Has a stored state, and receives inspects.
results Makes state transactions on each input, and may output some
Transactions and output must be deterministri
* A replicated state machines is a state machine that is
replicted on multiple nodes.
All replies must get exactly the same inputs
inputs Replisted log. State machine processes only committed
obtained from other nodes.
Even if some of the holes fail, state and output can be
Replicted State Machine
* Replicated state onestine based on replicted los
X Example commands assign values to varables
thint
yo?
consentus
xx
Conserves
x 3
module
y
module
y
7
23
2
3
Log
Log
XELZ<
xaz
yeh
yky
ZE2
X-2
y.
xx3
you
ye
of
leader
follower
consensous
x3
module
yr
23
Leg
xt2
ZE2
nk3
yea
yD7
follower
Leader dalaes los record committed after it is reglisted as a
majority of nodes.
Uses of Replicted State Machines
Replicated state machines can be used to implement wide
variety of services
Inguts can specify operations with palameters.
But operations must be deterministic
Result Gets of operation cambe sent to from any replica.
in replicated log.
used excented only when log record is committed
Example fault tolerant lock manger
state lock table.
operations : lick requests and lock releases
Output : grant, or rollback requests on deadlock
centralized by implementation is made fault du tolerant
simply running it on a replicated state machine.
Fault tolerant key value- - store
State: key value storage state
Operations : get (s) and put is are first logged
Google spanner used uses replicated state machine to
implement key value store.
multiple hodes.
Data partitioned, and each partition is replicated across
8)b) Deadlock Handling
The deadlak handling prevention and deadlak
deteition algorithms can be used in a distrubtited system,
provided that modifications are made. For example, we can
use the tree proterol by defining a global tree among the
system data items. Similarly, the timestamp. - ordering approach
could be directly applied to a distributed environment.
Deadlak prevention may result in unneressery waiting
and rollback Furthermore, certain deadlok -prevention
techniqies may require more sites to be involved in the
execution of a transaction than would otherwise the case.
If we allow deadlocks to ourh and rely on deadhrk detention,
the main problem in a distributed system is dending how to
maintain the wait- -for graph.
T1
T
2
125
T5
T3
T3
site S1
site S2
common techniques for dealing with the issue require that
each site keeping a loal wait for graph. The nodes of the
graph correspond to all the transations Cloral as well as
non -load) that are currently either holding or requesting
any of the items local to that site For example
the above diagram deputs a system courding consisting of
two sites, each maistaining its local wait-for graph note that
transactions T2 and T3 appear in both graphs, indicating that the
transactions have requested items at both sites.
These lord wait -for graphs are constructed in the used
manner for lord transactions and data items. when a
transaction Ti on site S1 needs a resource in site S2, it
sends a request message to site S2 If the resource is held
by transaction Ti, the system inserts an edge Ti
Ij in the
loud wait -fer graph of site S2. clearly, if any lord wait
for graphs has a cycle, dealock has owerd On the other hand,
the fact that there are no cycles in any of the lord wait-
for graphs does not mean that there are ho cycles in any
of the lord wait for graphs does not mean there are
no dealorks. Each wait -for graph is anythie; neverthless, a
deadlak exists in the system because the union of the
loud wait-fo graphs contains a cycle.
In the centralized deadlack approach, the system construte
and maintain a global wait -for graph in a single site: the
deadlock-deteition coordinator. Since there is communication
delay in the system, we must distinguish between the two types
of wait for graphs The real graph describes the real but
unknonown state of the system at any insurance
instance in time, as would be seen by am amnishent
observer. The constructed graph is an
approximation generated by the controller during the
execution of the controller's algorithm
Ti
2
T4
T5
3
T1
TI
T2
T3
S,
S2
1i
T3
T2
coordinator
False cycles in the global wait for graph
The global watefor graph can be reconstructed or updated
under these conditions :-
*
the wait-for graphs.
Whenever lord a new edge inhected in or removed from one of
Periddically when a number of changes have ownered in
a lord wait-for graph.
* whenever the coordinator needs to mioke the lifele - detection
a gorthin
when the coordinator makes the deadlock - detriens detection
algorithen, it searches its global graph If it finds a cycle,
it selects a victim to be rolled back The coordinata must
notify all the sites that a particular transaction has been
selated as victim The sites in turn, roll back the
victim transaction.
This scheme may produce unneressary rollbacks if :
False Cycles exists in the global wait-feer graph. Asan
illustration, consider a Snapshot of the system represented by the
loral wait- for graphs. Suppose T2 releases the resource that it
is holding in sites, resulting in the detection of the edge
T1
T2 in S1. Transaction T2 then requests a resource held
by T3 at site S2, resulting in the addition of the edge T2 7 T3 in
S2 If the hisert T2
T3 message from S2 arrives before the
remove T1 2T2 message from Si, the coordinator may discover the
false cycle T1 2 T2
T3 of ta the insert. Deadark recovery may
be initiated
*
A deadlock has indeed ownered and a viction has bear
picked, white one of the transations was abouted for reasons
unrelated to the deadlork.